hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day I've been waiting on a
sunny day to do this you remember the
last video I fired a 38 special versus a
Prince Rupert's drop and the Prince
Rupert's drop one well we're going to
fix that today we've got the high speed
camera back out and even though it beat
Full Metal Jacket rounds last time you
remember I fired the 22 Magnum and this
particular Prince Rupert's Trust
survived and then I fired the 38 special
and it survived we're to move up here so
now we've got this is my mini 14 it's
comparable to an ar-15 except I like
Poorman guns this is a much different
round a lot higher velocity its pointy I
know that sounds silly but I think it
matters I think a pointy bullet is going
to create more of a localized stress on
the Prince Rupert's drop I think it's
going to beat it we've got the ak-47 if
the mini-14 doesn't work
and now the ak-47 round a lot more mass
here so if that doesn't work we'll just
put more energy into it then if that
doesn't work
Mohsen the guts you don't know anything
about most in the gun this is like it's
a big deal you can see there's a lot
more energy there anyway let's get the
shooting going on here
[Music]
it's gone I think we'd be the prince
Orchestra
yeah surely
[Music]
yes we totally beat it
and there's light there's a light that
goes off and it turns it into a
fiber-optic a lot of light okay
this light thing I want to talk about it
it's something called triboluminescence
and I had to research that because I
didn't know about it
you know the Prince Rupert's drop was
first investigated in the 1600s right
well the same thing was true for
triboluminescence Sir Francis Bacon the
father of the scientific method says
this it is well known that all sugar
whether candied or plain it could be
hard will Sparkle when broken or scraped
in the dark they knew that in 1620 a lot
of people don't know that today if you
have hard candy this sugar and you put
it down there and you have well-adjusted
eyes and you smash it you can see sparks
I think it's amazing that 400 years
after triboluminescence was first
documented the scientific community
still does not completely understand
what's happening that's amazing that
cool I want to do it again we've got to
do the a K just because we can
let's health at work all right here we
go
it's a very expensive camera mount by
the way
[Applause]
No No
No
we saw that we saw the light again
there was a localized light this time
there's just a glancing blow but it was
enough to destroy the bullet that's an
aching around look at that
[Music]
come back not really aiming I'm just
kind of looking oh man we cut
[Music]
okay nothing's clear I didn't see any
powder I have no idea what just happened
that thing didn't even try to stand a
chance to that and beautiful I think we
have our answer once you get faster
bullets that are that are pointy they
can easily be the Prince Rupert's drop
now we know okay one more thing that
falls into the just because I can
category this is a the biggest Prince
Rupert's drop I've ever seen it's got
like multiple shapes and stuff it's
really scary I'm going to try to set it
in tannerite
and see what happens when we shoot the
tannerite see what a shockwave
externally does I don't think it'll
break I just want to see it'll happen
mom there's about to be a big boom okay
before we go blow stuff up I've got to
share this letter with you I'm a dad
right so when you get a letter from a
little girl named Paisley in California
you pay attention check this out you're
Destin my name is Paisley I am in second
grade I am seven years old I love your
videos my favorite is the tempered glass
one because I like to smash things but
my mom won't let me darn it
my mom says I'm crazy because I am I'm
homeschooled I'm good at art my dog had
puppies
I love science and math I am left-handed
love Paisley Paisley this is an adorable
letter and I thank you very much for it
the really cool thing about this to me
though is your name
Paisley that reminds me of the fabric
pattern Paisley which looks to me like
Prince Rupert's drops this is really
really cool because it made me think
about why we don't have a shirt at the
smartereveryday website that has Prince
Rupert shops on
so you just inspired me to do that so
Paisley I'm going to send you a shirt
for anybody else you can go check the
shirt out but it's for Paisley one more
thing Paisley your mom who won't let you
smash things if you tell her you're
going to be doing science she'll
probably let you smash things okay if
you want to take the bait go check out
the shirts and you should totally take
the bait
I'll leave a link down in the video
description you can go to the website
while you're there as you know audible
has supported smarter every day for
quite a while but I've made a website
that details every book I've ever
listened to on audible and what I
thought about it it's really kind of fun
anyway one in particular I want you to
check out is ready player one on the
next episode of no dumb questions which
is a podcast I do with Matt Whitman
we're going to talk about ready player
one because it's a discussion we've been
wanting to have for a really long time
it's a good book probably not for the
kids but it's really deep if you want to
do this with us go to audible.com slash
smarter and download ready player one or
just smash the big red button that I got
on the website there again that's all
about Icom slash smarter get a copy
ready player one and right now it's time
to go blow stuff up bomb there's about
to be a big boom complete professional
[Music]
Wow
holy cow it's raining picture this truck
this amazing
okie-doke that was fun things happened
here Wow
what do you think chicken